>> Brian Holt: In fact,
I should have just shown you this one.
This next example, notice we have here
some of these have a class of js-target
and some of these don't, right?
So in some of these,
I can say elements to change,
I do document.querySelectorAll.js-target.
So if I asked for.js-target,
which one of these am I gonna get?
I'm gonna get this one, that one.
I'm not gonna get that.
I'll get that one,
not this one, and that one.
Then here, I pull up the current elements,
elementsToChange I, right?
This is looking like a normal for
loop to us, hopefully.
And then here,
I'm saying currentElement.InnerText.
And I'm setting that to be
modified by JavaScript, right?
So if you go down here you'll see
these ones have been modified
by JavaScript, right?
But up here it said unchanged,
>> Brian Holt: And then,
these ones that say won't change, right,
they don't actually end up changing.
Make sense?
So this is another way that you can do it.
You can also do,
there is an inner HTML here, as well.
And this can be,
>> Brian Holt: We'll
put h1 around it, and then, you can
actually put h1's in here, as well.
And I'll just copy and
paste all of that into this.
>> Brian Holt: So now,
notice that they're massive, right?
Cuz it's actually putting h1's in there,
as well.
Whereas if I did that with inner text,
it wouldn't make it an HTML,
it would literally put the text h1,
which is not in general you want.
>> Brian Holt: So that's in general how
you're gonna be interacting with the DOM.
And anything that you can
think about in terms of these
DOM tags you can change, right?
You can change the source of images.
You can change the attributes.
You can change what the tags are.
You can remove HTML, you can add HTML.
All of that stuff is available to you.
>> Brian Holt: Or like another thing
I could do in here, if I come in and
say, let's say I inspect element on this.
So now I have y = $0.
So now I have access to this,
>> Brian Holt: Thing
right here, I can say y.classList.
So if I look at that, it's gonna be
a list of all the classes that are on it,
which it doesn't have any classes, right?
Cuz I changed this to be an ID.
So let's try that again.
Let's make that a class.
And now, dot, okay.
So Inspect element,
Console and,
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
So now I have the red square,
right, this one right there.
It's convenient that if you mouse over
it then it highlights over here in
the browser, right?
y.classList.
So here I can see that
it has one class on it,
which is the red-square, right,
which corresponds to this one.
I can say y, let's trash this.
And so y.classList.
You can add, so I can say add some other,
or let's do this.
Some other class.
So now, if I Inspect Elements on this,
you can see here that I've
added some other class.
You can see that right there.
Or I can say, remove,
>> Brian Holt: red-square,
now if I remove red-square,
what's gonna happen?
>> Speaker 2: It's gonna
blow up everything else.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
it's gonna go away, right?
Because all of its style it was
getting it from red-square, right?
So it disappears.
It's still there,
the div is still there, right?
But it has no width, it has no height and
it has no color,
which is why it disappeared.
But if I come back in here and say,
y.classList.add, what's gonna happen?
It's gonna reappear.
So this is something really,
really cool and powerful.
And actually, probably what you will end
up doing quite frequently with JavaScript
interacting with HTML, is adding and
subtracting classes, right?
So as you might imagine, I might
write up here, something like hidden,
>> Brian Holt: Display none, right?
Now if I say y.
>> Brian Holt: Hold on, let's make
sure that this is not the same one.
So let's y = document.getElement,
or let's do QuerySelector.
QuerySelector red-square.
>> Brian Holt: So
now that should be that, okay?
Now if I say y.classList.add hidden.
You can probably guess what this is
gonna do, but it's gonna hide it, right?
So now it has both this one, and
this class, but hidden has a display none,
so it disappears, right?
And I can come back in here and
say, y.classList.remove hidden, and
probably a spoiler alert,
it's gonna come back, right?
In fact, for your project today,
you're gonna be doing that
quite frequently, so good luck.
>> Speaker 2: Why doesn't
document.classList work to get all
the classes and a document?
>> Brian Holt: Document.classList?
Cuz it was never defined to do that.
[LAUGH] So the document itself, it refers
to basically the whole HTML document.
It's not even necessarily referring
to a specific node, right?
>> Speaker 2: What do you mean?
>> Brian Holt: So like this h1 right here,
this is an h1, an h2 actually,
an h2 node, right?
So it's one individual like
element on the page, right?
Document doesn't refer to
one particular element.
However, if you want that
there is document.body and
that does refer to the whole body, right?
And so, that will have a classList, which
right now the body has nothing on it.
The body will never have any classes
on it but it does technically exist.
>> Speaker 2: So this isn't like
the cascading is the right term?
Cuz I would expect that to
give me all of the classes
in any element within the body.
>> Brian Holt: So if within
the classes that are children of it?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: No, it is just that
particular one.
So if you want that,
you're gonna have to read,
some sort of algorithms can
be document.body.children.
And you're gonna have to go through
all of those children, right?
And this is gonna give you back
a bunch of all of these, right?
And you're gonna have to go into their
children, and into their children and
recursively grab all of those classes.
>> Speaker 2: So if I wanna know what
classes are in an entire document,
I should just look at the HTML?
>> Brian Holt: Probably, yeah.
Or if you're looking for one specifically,
you can just do document.QuerySelector,
right?
>> Brian Holt: Just say I'm looking for
all of the h2's, right?
Right.
And
they may not be siblings of each other.
But you can get all of them.
>> Speaker 2: And I can get those because
h2's are direct children of the document?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, and so,
if I wanted to say,
>> Brian Holt: This
one's gonna have children, these ones.
So if I Inspect Element on this,
>> Brian Holt: js-target.
No, that's not the one I want.
>> Brian Holt: So let's say I only wanna
get inside of these blocks right here,
which are called clips result.
So I can say
document.QuerySelector.clipsresult.
And then I can do a QuerySelector again,
to get everything that's inside of it.
>> Brian Holt: I think these are h1,
aren't they?
>> Brian Holt: I need
all on both of these.
>> Brian Holt: And
then I'd have to loop through them.
In any case,
you can scope them to in particular
ones by using not necessarily
QuerySelector on document.
But you can use it on
the individual elements, as well.
And it will be scoped to only find
elements inside of that element.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Mm-hm.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
Other questions?
>> Speaker 3: Is it normal to have
more than one class on a tag?
>> Brian Holt: Very, it's very normal.
You won't have more than one ID, but
you'll often have,
I wouldn't say more than five.
If you're getting beyond five you probably
have a problem, [LAUGH] in general.
I guess there are reasons to do it, but
I'd say one to three is very normal.
Good question.